In understanding
the blockchain ecosystem,
another very important
component of that ecosystem,
is the business use-case.
Beyond development and
finance, there are many,
many business use-cases
for blockchain technology.
Today, we're going to talk
about just a few of them.
We divide the
business use-cases of
the ecosystem into
four different categories,
value exchange, shared data,
authenticity, and
diversified financial.
Value exchange is
an important business use-case
for blockchain technology.
In a value exchange,
the content industry is the one
that is most primed
for disruption.
The content industry hasn't
changed much over time,
it is very extensive
and largely offline.
Content involves
creators, distributors,
and many different formats.
For example, content
on your mobile phone,
television, cable TV, and movies.
Consumers of content are global,
not just local, and the cost
of distributing
content are very high.
In addition, the rights
to content can
be tied up for
long periods of time.
Blockchain offers
a potential solution
to improve the world of content.
Blockchain can move
more marketplaces
onto a distributed ledger
and derive content
trading between
the producers and the
buyers of content.
Blockchain facilitates
the funding
of creative ideas as well,
and potentially offers
increased transparency
in the sharing of
the rights of content.
A second business use-case
for blockchain in
the value exchange sphere,
is the marketplace.
Blockchain marketplaces,
offer exchange of goods,
services, and even jobs.
Currently, these types of
marketplaces face
challenges over trust,
who is offering
the good services or job,
and who is operating
the marketplace itself?
Blockchain technology offers
a potential solution.
It allows buyers and
sellers to transfer
their reputation
from one marketplace
to another using
the distributed ledger.
Another very significant
business use-case
for blockchain in
value exchange, is energy.
Blockchain energy companies are
decentralized energy
data exchange platforms.
In other words, they focus
on data related to energy.
This may include, for example,
what's known as smart grid
management or managing
energy information through
a highly technologized
smart grid.
These companies provide
data transparency
and integrity solutions
to the use of energy.
In addition, blockchain
energy companies
can potentially enable
the forecasting
for these smart grids and provide
for trading and investment
in the energy space.
A second major component
of blockchain business
use cases, is shared data.
Some specific areas within
shared data include
Internet of Things,
supply chain or logistics,
what's known as attribution
for collaboration,
reputation systems,
and the management of
healthcare information.
Internet of Things refers to how
the myriad of devices
that we have today
leverage the use of
data and the Internet
to help us get things done
more quickly and effectively.
The business use-case
of shared data,
focuses on the Internet
of Things and
combines it with the use
of blockchain technology.
Here, blockchain can
potentially create secure
and optimized IoT applications.
These companies
leverage blockchain
to change how our devices,
such as mobile phones,
communicate with each other.
Today, both new and existing
companies operate within
this area of
the blockchain ecosystem
to focus on Internet of Things.
Another business use case for
the blockchain in
the shared data space,
is in the supply chain
and logistics world.
This area is ripe for
disruption by
blockchain technology.
Think of how supply
chain works today.
Today, the supply chain
for any one product
that you may buy can span
hundreds of different stages.
Multiple geographies
as products move
across the country and
even around the world.
Invoices for different
components of production
and payments from many different
entities take place.
Thousands of individuals
may be involved,
and the whole process is
very non-transparent.
The use of blockchain technology
can transform supply chain.
Here, every transaction in
the supply chain can be
recorded on a block and
distributed across
many different nodes.
Blockchain can
increase transparency
and security of this process,
and importantly, it is both
efficient and scalable.
Examples of the types of
supply chain or
logistic processes that
can benefit from the use of
blockchain technology include
the production of cars,
the production and
distribution of food,
and even the distribution
and sale of diamonds.
Another exciting and
important business use-case
for blockchain in
the shared data space,
is known as attribution
for collaboration.
This sounds complicated,
but it simply
refers to things like
music or writing,
and having multiple entities work
together to collaborate
on a project.
Using blockchain,
artists can generate
immutable and timestamped titles.
We can register assets to
a blockchain network and
verify and authorize content.
Blockchain can also be
used to create terms
for licensing.
Thus transforming the way we work
together to create
songs or scripts.
Another interesting
and exciting area
of blockchain is
the reputation system.
Reputation systems are
another great example
of the use of shared data
as a business use case.
Reputation systems address a risk
known as counterparty risk.
For example, if I'm
conducting a transaction
with someone else,
I face the risk that
that person won't fulfill
their obligations under
that transaction.
That is counterparty risk.
So for example, if we're
lending money to one another,
we face the risk
that party A might
not lend the money or party
B might not pay it back.
The blockchain can be used to
create a reputation system that
encourages and rewards
accurate information
about those parties.
Together, that data
can be used to
create what's known as
a reputation score.
Today, companies are using
the blockchain to create
these reputation systems and
leverage them within
their business community.
Another very exciting potential
use for the blockchain
within the shared data space
is healthcare information.
Healthcare information
is another area
that is ripe for disruption.
Today, healthcare data is
highly fragmented in
the United States.
Our data spans across
multiple entities,
hospitals, clinics,
insurance providers, and it
can be difficult to both
gather and provide that
information where it's necessary.
Companies are working to
use the blockchain to allow
individuals to own and
control their own
healthcare information.
Using blockchain technology,
patients can potentially
decide who would get access to
their information in
a secure fashion.
For example, the data on
the blockchain could be used
by patients to be sold to
a drug trial of their choice.
In this way, the blockchain
can be used to transform
the way we control and
distribute our
healthcare information.
Another very exciting area of
business use cases is
known as authenticity.
Authenticity within
the blockchain ecosystem,
refers to the integrity
and validation of data.
Within authenticity,
data and title
is one very important
business use case.
An example, real estate.
Currently, we face problems with
the data and storage of
real estate information.
For example, title
is stored on paper,
sometimes in a town or county
hall and it can take days,
even weeks to trace the use
of a title over time.
Blockchain can be
used to facilitate
the storage and
the validation of this data.
In addition, in
a real estate transaction,
blockchain can be leveraged
to secure the integrity
of the customer or
the buyer of an asset.
Blockchain can also be used
to create an audit trail for
certain business processes or
create proof of an event
or a transaction.
Another very exciting
potential use case for
blockchain in the authenticity
space relates to ticketing.
Today in the world of ticketing
for concerts or events,
there can be problems related
to counterfeit tickets.
Blockchain offers
a potential solution.
For example, using
blockchain technology,
we can facilitate
the transfer of ownership of
a ticket from one entity
or individual to another.
In fact, tickets can be created
and validated on
the blockchain itself,
and blockchain registration can
potentially prohibit
fraud in this process.
Another very significant
business use case for
blockchain is in
the diversified financial space.
Here, we're referring to
blockchain companies within
the ecosystem that perform
services related to legal,
accounting, middle
and back office,
and other types of
diversified financial services.
A number of companies
are growing in
the legal space in
business use cases.
These blockchain
companies leverage
smart contracts to
execute between parties.
This offers an alternative to
direct execution
of paper contracts
between parties or entities,
and it can mean,
less involvement
by actual lawyers.
In this space, the blockchain or
smart contracts can be
used to secure property,
intellectual property, and
even replace a notary public.
Another very exciting business
use case for blockchain,
is in the world of accounting.
Blockchain can be used to
transform accounting itself,
because the technology can
constitute a new type
of accounting ledger.
This ledger can result in
continuous verification
and updating,
unlike current paper heavy,
labor intensive processes.
In addition, because of
the secure and immutable nature
of blockchain technology,
there may be a lower threat of
alteration or corruption
of accounting records.
Finally, the blockchain
business use cases
related to diversified
financial can also transform
middle and back office functions
of many different types
of companies,
and conduct processes
such as payroll,
lending and trading, and even
maintain market analytics.